without without Windows here and you
asked for it and you got it. So this is
my complete guide to getting started
with ComfyUI completely from scratch.
And to show you I'm not playing, I took
my laptop and I completely formatted it
and wiped it out so that we can start
everything step-by-step so there's no
type of guesswork when it comes to
installing ComfyUI on your computer. Now
this one's been requested by a lot of
people out there so without further ado,
let's jump right into it. Since I
completely wiped my laptop and
reformatted it, everything that we're
going to do from here on out is going to
be exactly what you're going to see if
this is your first time using ComfyUI.
So let's start at the very top. So we're
going to go to the website which is
comfy.org and once you're there, you're
going to come to this page right here
which is the landing page. So what we're
going to do is come over here to where
it says download. You could do it in the
top right hand corner
and you're going to see that we have
several different options. Now we have
two versions if you use a Windows
computers, you could use download for
Windows or you could do install from
GitHub which this is what we're going to
do or if you're on a Mac, you also have
an option for that as well which I never
used a Mac so I'm not really sure how
that holds up but we're not going to do
the download for Windows. I noticed that
when I used the Windows version of it,
sometimes I hit a lot of discrepancies
and a lot of people say that you want to
install it from GitHub and that way
you're going to get the true form of
ComfyUI which you're going to have all
the bells and whistles fully at your
disposal. And don't worry, if you've
never used GitHub before, I'm going to
walk you through everything so we're
just going to click on install from
GitHub and you should see this page
right here. Now I know it looks like a
lot especially if you're not familiar
with GitHub, certainly I wasn't before I
started ComfyUI but if you scroll down
here towards the middle,
you're going to scroll past all this
stuff and you should see getting
started. So from right here, instead of
a desktop application because remember
that's the one we don't want to install,
we want to use Windows portable package.
We're just going to left click on this
and from there you should see a link
that says direct link download. What I
like to do is right click and then save
link as and then you're just going to
save it to your downloads folder, click
on save and then in the top right hand
corner, depending on what web browser
you're using, you should see it starting
to download. And this is a caveat that I
noticed like I'm using Microsoft Edge.
The one thing that I noticed every time
I went to download this was it would get
all the way up to 100% and then it would
just, you know, stall out. I'm not sure
why exactly but I noticed that if I
install Firefox and I download it using
Firefox, I was able to download it no
problem at all. So if you're running
into this issue, maybe try out Firefox
to see if that works for you. So now you
can see I have the ComfyUI portable
edition downloaded to my folder which is
my download folder here. Now this is a
.7z file. Now if you go back to that
page, you'll see that we have a link
here to go to 7-Zip. So if you're using
Windows 10, you'll want to use this
version right here that is a 64-bit x64.
Download this right here and you'll be
able to extract that file. But if you're
on Windows 11, if you just click on it,
you should see extract all up here at
the top. So if you click on this, you're
actually able to extract it just use a
Windows. So I noticed that they added
this in maybe more more recent versions
of Windows 11. I can't remember exactly
when but you should be able to extract
it from here. This might take a couple
minutes as well. And once you have that
extracted, you're going to have this
folder right here and if you double
click on it, you should see this right
here ComfyUI_windows_portable.
Now we don't have to install this at
all. We could just literally click and
drag and drop this onto our C drive.
That's where I would say to drop it
onto. So if I come back to this folder
right here, let me actually have both
folders up at the same exact time so we
can see everything that's going on.
There we go. So on my left side, I'm
just going to put this onto my C drive.
So I'm going to double click on my C
drive, come over here and I like putting
it inside of my program files just
because that's where you usually have
all your programs. I'm just going to
extend this down here to the bottom and
then I'm going to take my ComfyUI
folder. I'm just going to left click and
drag it into that programs file. I mean
you could put it anywhere that you want
but I would suggest putting it on your C
drive because I found when I had it on
the C drive, it gave me the least amount
of problems. Like I've had it on other
drives before and sometimes when I went
to update or, you know, download
different models, sometimes there was
some discrepancies in there but do as
you please but for me, the C drive
seemed to work perfectly fine. All
right. So we have this on our C drive
now. We have it under program files. I'm
just going to take this and I'm going to
bring it over here to where we have like
our documents and our downloads just so
I'm able to get to it more quickly. This
will be where you have like your pin
folders. And so because we're going to
be going in here a lot, so I'm going to
click on this now and the one that you
want to run is run_nvidia_gpu.
Now you could run it using a CPU but
that's going to be extremely slow. What
ComfyUI really excels at is it's going
to be running off your GPU and what you
want to use this middle one right here.
So I'm going to double click on this and
then you're just going to give us a
moment to extract all the files. Now
that only took a second or two but once
you do, you can see that we have ComfyUI
running inside the web browser. Now even
though we have it installed on our
desktop, it's all going to be
browser-based and if you want it to be
full screen, we're just going to hit F11
on our keyboard and that's just going to
bring a full screen like we see right
here. Before we get started in ComfyUI,
we definitely want to install a manager
because that's going to allow you to
install a lot of nodes especially if
you're working with a certain model like
you downloaded template and you might
notice that some things are missing.
This is the easiest way to get some of
those missing items inside of ComfyUI.
And just so that I can make this as easy
as possible to follow, I'm going to go
back to comfy.org
and we're going to come right here to
where it says install from GitHub. I
just want to start from the beginning so
nobody's confused where to find this. So
once we come back here, this should look
familiar. This is where we got ComfyUI.
I'm going to scroll down here to the
bottom and you should see ComfyUI
manager. So I'm just going to keep
scrolling down
until we see it down here. So I'm going
to keep scrolling. I don't want to edit
this just because I want you to see
exactly where it's at. So right here
towards the middle, it says ComfyUI
manager. I'm going to left click on this
and that's going to bring you to this
screen right here. Now notice that they
did update the ComfyUI manager and if we
scroll down here, it's going to say that
there's a legacy mode and then there's a
version four mode. I'm going to go back
to the legacy mode just because I found
that a little bit more easier to install
it. So what I'm going to do is hit F11
on my keyboard just to bring up my URL
and instead of where it says manager
tree version four, I'm going to delete
this.
So right now, you're going to see
github.com/comfy-org/comfyui/manager
and then I'm going to hit enter
and that's just going to take you back
to the legacy version of it. So now if I
scroll down,
right where it says ComfyUI manager, if
I scroll down even more, you should see
different installation methods. Now I'm
going to go with installation method
number two and which right here it says
install Git. So I'm just going to left
click on this
and this is where we can install Git. So
this very first one right here where it
says click here to download, I'm going
to left click on this
and we're just going to wait for this to
download. So once that's done, I'm going
to click on open file
and then I'm just going to go through
everything to get this installed.
So this is the reason why I wanted to
format my computer because this type of
stuff wouldn't pop up since I already
installed it before. So I'm just going
to leave everything as is. I'm just
going to click on next. Now I don't need
to create a start menu folder so I'm
going to click on next again. Just leave
everything at default. Just going to
install all this here. Use the
recommended settings, click on next. I'm
going to use the very top one here,
click on next and click on next again.
Sorry this seems redundant but I just
want everybody to see exactly the steps
that I went through to install
everything. So I'm just going to keep on
clicking next through all the defaults
here.
If you feel the need, you can always
fast forward through this part as well.
There we go. So now it's extracting and
it's going to install it. And then once
it's done, I don't need to release the
notes or anything or I don't need to
launch it. I'm just going to click on
finish. So now I'm going to go back to
that previous page and again, sorry for
being redundant but I wanted to make
sure that there was absolutely no
missteps whenever you're going to
install this because I know sometimes
that would trip you up and I saw other
tutorials that skipped this all together
because they already had it installed.
So hopefully everything that I'm showing
you here is getting you set up for
ComfyUI. So back here on installation
method number two, I'm going to come
right here to where it says download but
we don't want to left click on it. We
want to right click right here where we
see the blue underline script. I'm going
to right click and then I'm going to
save link as and then I'm just going to
put this inside of my downloads folder
for right now. I'm going to click on
save and that should only take like a
second or two to download. And then if I
scroll down here, this is the nice thing
on GitHub. It actually shows the
screenshots. So it's telling you that
you want to put it inside of your
ComfyUI folder that we just put inside
of our C drive and then you want to open
it up from there. So I'm inside of my
programs folder and this is where I have
my ComfyUI folder. I'm going to double
click on this and then I'm going to open
up my downloads folder and I'm going to
take that .bat file. It says install
manager for portable version. I'm going
to left click and drag it into this
folder here and now I'm just going to
double click on this and wait for this
to install. You're going to see the
security warning pop up. I'm just going
to click on run
and then just give it a moment to work
its magic. So once that's installed, I'm
going to go back onto my laptop and I'm
just going to close everything back down
and then we're going to open up ComfyUI.
So I'm going to come back down here,
open up Windows Edge and then I'm just
going to close down all these tabs here.
And then we have our command window down
here as well. I'm going to close this
out and I just want to open everything
up from scratch. So once everything is
closed out, we're going to come back
here again to where it says
run_nvidia_gpu.
I'm going to double click on this
and once this is done, it's going to
open up ComfyUI inside of our web
browser.
So there we go. We have ComfyUI running
inside of our web browser and you notice
this time now we have the manager here.
So if I left click on this manager, so
you'll notice that over here towards the
bottom, it says update all. We can click
on this and this is going to update
everything that we need. So I'm going to
click on update all and it's going to
say apply the updates. You need to
restart ComfyUI. So I'm just going to
click on restart right here and I'm
going to confirm it by clicking this
blue button that says confirm and you
should see this say reconnecting over
here in the right hand corner. I'm just
going to wait for everything to work. If
you open up the command prompt, you'll
see that everything is working inside of
here as well but once it's done, if I go
back here to ComfyUI, it's going to say
confirm that everything has changed. So
there you have it. Now you officially
have ComfyUI installed completely on
your computer. So now is where all the
fun stuff happens. Now I'm not to go
through anything too advanced. I want
this to be completely for beginners to
get comfortable using ComfyUI. So, let's
start off with a couple of templates
that I thought might be good for any
beginners to get used to ComfyUI with.
So, over on our left-hand side, you
should see this button that says
templates. I'm going to left click on
this, and you're going to see that we
have a whole plethora of different
templates that we could choose from. So,
you might notice in the top left-hand
corner, it's going to tell you exactly
what model it's using. Like this is
Topaz, shout out to Topaz. We have Grok
on here. You have Video 3, the stuff
from Google, you have Quiver. If you
scroll down, you'll just see that you're
bombarded with a ton of different models
on here. Now, for me, the whole reason
I'm using ComfyUI is so that I can run
everything locally. And if you're using
these models like Grok and Google,
you're not going to be doing that, and
you're still going to be paying per
generation, which kind of defeats the
purpose, right? So, if you come up here
to the top where it says runs on, if you
left click on this, and then you click
on ComfyUI, all the templates that you
see inside of here is everything that
you're going to be able to run locally.
So, that means that no matter how many
generations you're doing, since it's
being worked on by your machine, you
don't have to pay anything at all, which
means that you essentially get unlimited
generations, and that's a lot more fun
to work with instead of worrying about
credits or doing any type of monthly
subscriptions. So, let's start off with
the easy one. If you look over here at a
left-hand corner under generation type,
I'm going to click on image, and that's
going to give us a couple of different
templates to start off with. I'm going
to come down here to where we see Flux
2, because Flux is a popular model. I
know a lot of people use it, and it's a
good one as well. And if you want to
know exactly which one I'm using, just
look for this thumbnail. You see the
ComfyUI logo is put onto the steering
wheel, in which this is exactly what
we're going to demonstrate. So, I'm
going to left click on this,
and you're probably going to be greeted
with this right here. It says this
workflow is missing nodes, and it's
going to tell you exactly what nodes are
missing, but I'm not going to download
it from here because I want to show you
something first. So, I'm just going to
click this off, and usually when you
download a template, it's going to give
you a nice guide here on the left-hand
side, and this shows you exactly which
you need to put everything into what
folder. So, you can see this right here,
it's saying ComfyUI, your models. You're
going to have your text encoders, you're
going to have your VAEs, in which if you
click on these links, that's what you're
going to download. So, let's start off
with the text encoder. I'm going to
click on this right here, and you see in
the upper left-hand corner, it's about 8
gigs, so this one's going to take a
little bit to download. So, I'm going to
download the VAE as well. So, I'm going
to left click on this, and that one's a
little bit smaller. It's 521 megabytes,
which you can see that's downloading
extremely fast. And if you're wondering
what a text encoder is, it's basically a
translator that goes from your text
prompt into your AI model. So, think of
it as in, you know, like a hex code. So,
you type out your prompt, and it's going
to put that into like a numerical value,
in which the AI model is easily able to
understand. And the VAE, that stands for
variational autoencoder, and that's
going to handle everything on your
visual side. And while that's
downloading, I'm going to come up here
to where we have our diffusion model.
Now, this is going to be your base model
for whatever model you're working with.
I'm going to left click on this, and
once you left click on that, you're
going to see that it's going to bring
you to a page that kind of looks like
GitHub, but it's called Hugging Face.
Now, Hugging Face is where you're going
to find a whole plethora of different
models that you could download and use
inside of ComfyUI. This one we're going
to be using Flux, and you can see right
now it's saying that it's a gated model.
I've been granted access to it, which
means I made an account for Hugging
Face. It's really easy to do, it's free.
You just make an account, and then you
ask for access to the model. And if I
scroll down,
you can see that there's two different
versions of it. So, the FP8, that's
going to be a lightweight version that's
going to work for cards that are maybe
like a 20 series card, 30 series, 40
series. But then your BF6, that's going
to be your heavyweight model, in which
if you have a Blackwell card like I'm
using, or even like a 50 series card,
you're going to be able to use that
model. So, depending on the type of
graphics card that you're going to be
using, you're just going to want to do a
little bit of research and see what's
going to be suffice for the type of card
that you have. I know most people are
using the VP8 version, so that's what
I'm going to download here. I'm going to
left click on this, and once you do,
it's going to bring you to this page
right here, in which under J Mueller,
you'll see this download button. You're
going to left click on this, and this
should download the model for you. And
which you can see, it's almost about 9
gigs, so depending on your internet
speed, this might take a minute or so to
download, but I'm going to go back to
the previous page because I do want to
download the heavyweight version as
well. So, I'm going to click on right
here where it says can be found here.
And I've never downloaded this version
yet. I wanted to save it for this video,
but you can see right here it's saying
that I need to agree to have my contact
information to access this model. Again,
that just means that you need a Hugging
Face account, in which let me open up
Firefox. So, I'm inside of Firefox right
now because I don't have a Hugging Face
account on my Firefox. So, if you wanted
a Hugging Face account, all you have to
do is come here, you would click on sign
up, and then you would just enter inside
your email, make up a password, and this
is easy as that. Now, I'm not going to
lie, I didn't use my personal or
business email for this. I made a side
email just for this because I wasn't
really sure what kind of information
they wanted, so I just made like a
throwaway account, and it doesn't really
matter. I just like to play it safe, so
I made a throwaway email, and then used
that to sign up for Hugging Face. And
then once you have your account, we're
just going to click on agree and access
to repository, and now it just gave me
access to that model. And you'll notice
that this time, there's no links to
click on for it, but if I scroll up here
to the very top, you can see that we
have this button that says file and
versions. So, if I left click on this,
now you can see that we can find it
right here, in which this one is about
18 gigs, so you can see it's a lot
bigger. I'm not going to download this
one for right now, but if you want to
access to the higher version model, this
is exactly where you would get it. So, I
have everything downloaded that I need,
and I'm just going to put these into the
respective folders. Now, I have two
Windows File Explorers opened up because
on the left-hand side, these are the
files that I just downloaded, and then
on my right-hand side, this is where I'm
going to put everything inside of
ComfyUI. So, if you're on this right
here, where you see your run Nvidia GPU,
if you look up, we have another folder
called ComfyUI. You can double click on
this, and then you want to come down
here to the bottom to where it says
models. So, I'm going to double click on
models, and then I'm just going to
follow exactly what it tells me right
here. So, under models, under text
encoders, we want to put this one that
says Quinn_3_8B
um  safe tensors, which that's
going to be this one right here. So, I'm
going to look for my text encoder
folder.
So, I have it in alphabetical order to
make it easier to find. So, right here I
have text encoders. I'm going to double
click on this, and then this is easy as
just dragging and dropping it right into
that respective folder. So, the next one
is going to be for a VAE. We're going to
have Flux 2, so I'm going to come back
to my models. I'm going to look for VAE,
which should be down here at the bottom.
Right here, VAE. And then I'm going to
take that file, Flux 2-VAE.
I'm going to put this one into that
folder.
And then it doesn't say anything about
our diffusion model, but you can see up
here it's in diffusion models, which we
do have a diffusion model folder, so it
should be up here towards the top. Right
here, where it says diffusion model.
Double click on this, and this is where
we're going to take that model that we
got from Hugging Face. We're going to
left click and drag it into that folder.
So, now everything should be where we
need it. So, now I can come back here to
ComfyUI. I'm going to use my mouse
button just to scroll back so we can see
everything, but you might notice that
everything is still red right here. So,
we just need to refresh it. All you have
to do is hit R on your keyboard,
and that's going to refresh it, and now
you see everything is white. So, if you
did it correctly, everything should be
white here. Now, for this particular
model, we just need two images, which
I'm going to put into the top and the
bottom here. So, I have these two
folders. I was drinking coffee this
morning. I love Boss coffee. I got that
when I was in Tokyo. Big fan of Boss.
So, I put that at the top, and then I'm
just going to take my headshot, or not a
headshot, one I shot for a thumbnail.
I'm going to drag that as the bottom.
And what I want to do is I want to take
my big head right here, and I want to
make it the iconic logo as you can see
right there. So, once I have my
respective photos inside these slots
here, I'm going to come right here to
where we have our text prompt, and I'm
just going to do something as simple as
saying take the logo
from reference image one. Because if you
notice, the top one is called reference
image one, the bottom one is reference
image two. So, I find this is an easy
way to tell it what photo I'm talking
about. But take the logo from reference
image one and replace it with the photo
from reference image two. Then hit
period, and then I'm just going to
scroll back here.
And then in the top right-hand corner,
you're going to see that we have this
blue button called run. So, you just
left click on this. You're just going to
give it a moment to warm up. Depending
on your GPU, it's going to depend on the
time that it takes. But over here, you
can see that this is going to be where
our queue is, and it's going to tell us
exactly what the percentage is. For
photos, it usually doesn't take as long
as it does for videos, but let's just
give it a second and let it work its
magic.
And there we go. So, you can see we got
my head inside of that. It didn't keep
everything. I don't know why it didn't
maintain everything. When I did it this
morning, it actually did a really good
job. But that's the thing about having
ComfyUI, right? Like you can just run
through as many generations as you need.
So, all I'm going to do is just hit run
again. It's going to give you a
different outcome every time you hit
run. But the nice thing is, you don't
have to pay for every generation that
you do. Which on other platforms, that's
the thing. Like you have to pay per
credit, which I could get pretty
expensive pretty fast. But with ComfyUI,
you're running your own GPU, so you
don't have to worry about it. There we
go. So, that's a little bit better. I
mean, all it did was put my picture
inside of there. We could probably go
through here in the text prompt and give
it a little bit more direction, but I
think you get the gist of it. So, you
have your two photos there, you give it
a text prompt, and then it will do
everything here on the outside. Now, you
might notice that we have these purple
boxes up here, and sometimes these
templates will do this, right? So, down
here, this is if you have multiple
images, but if you look, it says select
all the nodes that hit control B to
disable it. So, if I select these nodes
here,
you don't have to hit control B. You can
actually select this right here,
right next to your play button, and
that's going to disable that. But if you
come up here, and you enable this,
this is going to be for a single image
one. So, you might notice that this one
is connected down here, but this image
is connected to both. And that's just
the way they set up this template in
particular. But now, if I wanted to, I
could have just this one image be
controlled by a prompt, and that image
is going to pop up over here. So, let's
just for fun, let's just type in
something. Turn can
around to the back. And let's just see
what it does. So, there you go. It
didn't do a terrible job. I mean, that's
a bunch of jargon, right? It doesn't
know exactly what type of text is there
on the back hand side, but it did its
best to try to turn it around. So, you
can see how you can just go through
here, play around as much as you want,
and not have to worry about paying a
dime. And I think that's going to do it
for this tutorial, but I would say go
through some of these templates, and
just play around with them. I mean, you
want to make sure that you're keeping
good eye on your hard drive because some
of these different models could be
pretty vast depending on what model you
download. But I would play with some of
the more popular ones like Flux 2.
That's usually pretty good with image
generation. For video, I would say that
LTX 2.3 is a really popular one if you
want to do stuff that's more realistic.
And if there's a specific type of model
that you're looking for, if you come
over here to where it says model filter,
if you left click on this, this is going
to have all the different models that
you have at your disposal. So, you could
just scroll through here if there's a
specific one that you're looking for.
Like if you want LTX 2.3, left click on
that, and that's going to show you only
those models that use LTX 2.3. Now, if
you want me to do some more advanced
ComfyUI tutorials, please let me know.
I'd be more than happy to do so. I can
show you how you can start building out
your nodes completely from scratch if
you didn't want to use a template
because the way that I look at ComfyUI,
I often describe it is like Houdini, but
for AI generation, which if you know how
to really use the nodes and use them to
your description, it could be extremely
powerful for whatever you're trying to
use. So, once again, my name is Jonathan
Wimbush if you're new. Subscribe if
you're new. And until next time, stay
fresh, keep creating, [music] and I'll
catch you in the next video. I'll see
you soon. Take care.